Autopsy studies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have found that neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) pathology of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) demonstrates selective topography with relatively stereotyped subregional involvement at early disease stages, prompting interest in more granular measurement of these structures with in vivo magnetic resonance imaging. We applied a novel, automated method for measurement of hippocampal subfields and extrahippocampal MTL cortical regions. The cohort included cognitively normal (CN) adults (n = 86), early mild cognitive impairment (n = 43), late MCI (n = 22), and mild AD (n = 40) patients from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). For pseudolongitudinal analysis of the continuum from preclinical to mild AD dementia, the groups were further divided according to amyloid status based on positron emission tomography. Specific subregions associated with the early NFT pathology of AD were more sensitive to preclinical and early prodromal AD than whole hippocampal volume while more diffuse involvement was found in later stages. In particular, BA35, the first region associated with NFT deposition, was the only region to discriminate preclinical AD from amyloid negative cognitively normal adults ("normal aging"). In general, patterns of atrophy in the pseudolongitudinal analysis largely recapitulated Braak staging of NFTs within the MTL.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4)-specific T cells are expanded in neuromyelitis optica (NMO) patients and exhibit Th17 polarization. However, their pathogenic role in CNS autoimmune inflammatory disease is unclear. Although multiple AQP4 T-cell epitopes have been identified in WT C57BL/6 mice, we observed that neither immunization with those determinants nor transfer of donor T cells targeting them caused CNS autoimmune disease in recipient mice. In contrast, robust proliferation was observed following immunization of AQP4-deficient (AQP4-/-) mice with AQP4 peptide (p) 135-153 or p201-220, peptides predicted to contain I-Ab-restricted T-cell epitopes but not identified in WT mice. In comparison with WT mice, AQP4-/- mice used unique T-cell receptor repertoires for recognition of these two AQP4 epitopes. Donor T cells specific for either determinant from AQP4-/-, but not WT, mice induced paralysis in recipient WT and B-cell-deficient mice. AQP4-specific Th17-polarized cells induced more severe disease than Th1-polarized cells. Clinical signs were associated with opticospinal infiltrates of T cells and monocytes. Fluorescent-labeled donor T cells were detected in CNS lesions. Visual system involvement was evident by changes in optical coherence tomography. Fine mapping of AQP4 p201-220 and p135-153 epitopes identified peptides within p201-220 but not p135-153, which induced clinical disease in 40% of WT mice by direct immunization. Our results provide a foundation to evaluate how AQP4-specific T cells contribute to AQP4-targeted CNS autoimmunity (ATCA) and suggest that pathogenic AQP4-specific T-cell responses are normally restrained by central tolerance, which may be relevant to understanding development of AQP4-reactive T cells in NMO.
Leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is a promising target for the treatment of Parkinson's disease; however, little is known about the expression of LRRK2 in human brain and if/how LRRK2 protein levels are altered in Parkinson's disease.We measured the protein levels of LRRK2 as well as its phosphorylation on serines 910, 935, and 973 in the postmortem brain tissue of Parkinson's disease patients and aged controls with and without Lewy bodies.LRRK2 and its phosphorylation were measured by immunoblot in brain regions differentially affected in Parkinson's disease (n = 30) as well as subjects with Lewy bodies restricted to the periphery and lower brain stem (n = 25) and matched controls without pathology (n = 25).LRRK2 levels were increased in cases with restricted Lewy bodies, with a 30% increase measured in the substantia nigra. In clinical Parkinson's disease, levels of LRRK2 negatively correlated to disease duration and were comparable with controls. LRRK2 phosphorylation, however, particularly at serine 935, was reduced with clinical Parkinson's disease with a 36% reduction measured in the substantia nigra.Our data show that LRRK2 phosphorylation is reduced with clinical PD, whereas LRRK2 expression is increased in early potential prodromal stages. These results contribute to a better understanding of the role of LRRK2 in idiopathic Parkinson's disease and may aid efforts aimed at therapeutically targeting the LRRK2 protein. © 2016 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is a central protein in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), yet its normal function has proved stubbornly hard to elucidate. Even though it remains unclear how pathogenic mutations affect LRRK2 to cause PD, recent findings provide increasing cause for optimism. We summarise here the developing consensus over the effect of pathogenic mutations in the Ras of complex proteins and C-terminal of Roc domains on LRRK2 GTPase activity. This body of work has been greatly reinforced by our own study of the protective R1398H variant contained within the LRRK2 GTPase domain. Collectively, data point towards the pathogenicity of GTP-bound LRRK2 and strengthen a working model for LRRK2 GTPase function as a GTPase activated by dimerisation. Together with the identification of the protective R1398H variant as a valuable control for pathogenic mutations, we have no doubt that these triumphs for the LRRK2 field will accelerate research towards resolving LRRK2 function and towards new treatments for PD.
Non-coagulating (NC) milk, defined as milk not coagulating within 40 min after rennet-addition, can have a negative influence on cheese production. Its prevalence is estimated at 18% in the Swedish Red (SR) cow population. Our study aimed at identifying genomic regions and causal variants associated with NC milk in SR cows, by doing a GWAS using 777k SNP genotypes and using imputed sequences to fine map the most promising genomic region. Phenotypes were available from 382 SR cows belonging to 21 herds in the south of Sweden, from which individual morning milk was sampled. NC milk was treated as a binary trait, receiving a score of one in case of non-coagulation within 40 min. For all 382 SR cows, 777k SNP genotypes were available as well as the combined genotypes of the genetic variants of αs1-β-κ-caseins. In addition, whole-genome sequences from the 1000 Bull Genome Consortium (Run 3) were available for 429 animals of 15 different breeds. From these sequences, 33 sequences belonged to SR and Finish Ayrshire bulls with a large impact in the SR cow population. Single-marker analyses were run in ASReml using an animal model. After fitting the casein loci, 14 associations at -Log10(P-value) > 6 identified a promising region located on BTA18. We imputed sequences to the 382 genotyped SR cows using Beagle 4 for half of BTA18, and ran a region-wide association study with imputed sequences. In a seven mega base-pairs region on BTA18, our strongest association with NC milk explained almost 34% of the genetic variation in NC milk. Since it is possible that multiple QTL are in strong LD in this region, 59 haplotypes were built, genetically differentiated by means of a phylogenetic tree, and tested in phenotype-genotype association studies. Haplotype analyses support the existence of one QTL underlying NC milk in SR cows. A candidate gene of interest is the VPS35 gene, for which one of our strongest association is an intron SNP in this gene. The VPS35 gene belongs to the mammary gene sets of pre-parturient and of lactating cows.
In neuromyelitis optica (NMO), one of the underlying pathogenic mechanisms is the formation of antigen-antibody complexes which can trigger an inflammatory response by inducing the infiltration of neutrophils in lesions. Epithelial neutrophil-activating peptide 78 (ENA 78), known as Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 5 (CXCL5), belongs to the ELR-CXCL family. It recruits and activates neutrophils. The aim of this study was to evaluate ENA 78, IL-1β and TNF-α plasma levels in multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuromyelitis optica (NMO) patients.ENA 78, IL-1β and TNF-α plasma levels were detected in 20 healthy controls (HC), 25 MS and 25 NMO patients using MILLIPLEX® map Human High Sensitivity Cytokine/Chemokine Panels.Plasma levels of ENA 78 were significantly higher in NMO patients than in HC (P < 0.001) and MS patients (P < 0.05). The NMO patients showed higher plasma levels of IL-1β compared with HC (P < 0.01). Further, increased plasma levels of TNF-α were found in the MS (P < 0.05) and NMO patients (P < 0.001). In addition, NMO patients had higher Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) scores compared with MS patients (P < 0.05). EDSS scores were correlated with plasma levels of ENA 78 in NMO patients (P < 0.05). There were no significant correlations between EDSS scores and plasma levels of ENA 78 in MS patients (P > 0.05).The overproduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β and TNF-α during the remission of NMO activates ENA 78, which in turn leads to neutrophil infiltration in lesions. ENA 78 plasma levels were correlated with EDSS scores in NMO patients. Elevated secretion of ENA 78 may be a critical step in neutrophil recruitment during the remission of NMO.
The tumor necrosis factor like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK) and its receptor, fibroblast growth factor-inducible 14 (Fn14), mediate inflammation and neuronal apoptosis in cerebral edema, ischemic stroke and multiple sclerosis. The downstream effectors and pathways linked to TWEAK-Fn14 signaling are strongly implicated in the pathology of Parkinson's disease (PD), thus indicating a putative role for TWEAK/Fn14 signaling in PD neurodegeneration. Using the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model, we aimed to determine whether genetic ablation or pharmacologic mitigation of the TWEAK protein and its Fn14 receptor affected substantia nigra and striatum Parkinsonian pathology. Changes in endogenous TWEAK protein expression were also quantified in tissue from both MPTP-treated mice and PD human samples. TWEAK protein expression was transiently increased in the striatal tissue but remained unaltered in substantia nigra tissue of MPTP-treated mice. There was also no change of TWEAK protein levels in the substantia nigra or the striatum of human PD patients as compared to matched control subjects. Mitigating the effects of endogenous TWEAK protein using neutralizing antibody did affect MPTP-mediated neurotoxicity in the substantia nigra using the sub-acute model of MPTP (30mg/kg i.p. over five consecutive days). Neither TWEAK nor Fn14 genetic ablation led to attenuation of MPTP-toxicity in the acute model. These findings suggest that TWEAK signaling might be an aspect of MPTP-mediated neuropathology and be involved in the overall neurodegenerative pathology of PD.
Severe damage to the blood-brain barrier (BBB) allows anti-aquaporin 4 (AQP4) antibodies to access the astrocytic endfeet in neuromyelitis optica (NMO). In the current study, we identified the pathogenic cytokines/chemokines that are responsible for the BBB malfunction induced by NMO sera.We measured the levels of 27 cytokines/chemokines in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs) after exposure to sera obtained from patients with the acute and stable phases of anti-AQP4 antibody-positive NMO spectrum disorder (NMOSD), multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and healthy controls (HC) using a multiplexed fluorescent bead-based immunoassay system.The induced protein (IP)-10 level in the cells was markedly increased following exposure to acute phase NMOSD sera. Other cytokines/chemokines including interleukin (IL)-6 and monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-1 were also significantly increased in the acute NMOSD group compared to both the MS and HC groups. The up-regulation of the IP-10 levels in the cells after exposure to the acute-phase NMOSD sera was also observed using another specified ELISA, and this effect was significantly decreased during the remission phase in the individual NMOSD patients. Furthermore, the increase in the level of IP-10 after exposure to the sera was significantly correlated with the cerebrospinal fluid/serum albumin ratio.Sera from the acute phase of NMO markedly increased the autocrine secretion of IP-10 by BMECs. The over-production of IP-10 in BMECs may play an important role in the pathogenesis of NMO and may therefore help to mediate the trafficking of T cells expressing its receptor across the BBB.
Despite recent advances in delineating the pathogenic mechanisms of autoimmune disease, the puzzle that reveals the true picture of these diverse immunological disorders is yet to be solved. We know that the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loci as well as many different genetic susceptibility loci with relatively small effect sizes predispose to various autoimmune diseases and that environmental factors are involved in triggering disease. Models for mechanisms of disease become increasingly complex as relationships between components of both the adaptive and innate immune systems are untangled at the molecular level. In this article, we pose some of the important questions about autoimmunity where the answers will advance our understanding of disease pathogenesis and improve the rational design of novel therapies. How is autoimmunity triggered, and what components of the immune response drive the clinical manifestations of disease? What determines whether a genetically predisposed individual will develop an autoimmune disease? Is restoring immune tolerance the secret to finding cures for autoimmune disease? Current research efforts seek answers to these big questions.
Anti-TNF drugs have represented an epochal revolution in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and spondyloarthritis. In the field of axial spondyloarthritis, golimumab, a fully human monoclonal anti-TNFα administered subcutaneously every 4 weeks, has shown significant efficacy and good safety in patients with ankylosing spondylitis. More recently, it was also indicated as an effective treatment for patients suffering from non-radiographic axial spondyloarthitits. Areas covered: A systematic literature search was completed, using the largest electronic databases (Medline, Embase and Cochrane), with the aim to review all data concerning the administration of golimumab in patients suffering from axial spondyloartritis. Expert opinion: In the 16-week GO-AHEAD study, golimumab was effective in patients with non-radiographic spondyloarthritis with high levels of CRP and/or positive MRI findings, but not in subjects with both negative CRP and MRI. This finding allows for the addressing the of anti-TNF treatment more specifically. Preliminary data concerning an open-label extension of the GO-AHEAD study outlined the high retention-rate of the drug at 52 weeks. The production of antibodies against golimumab is rare and it seems to exert scarce influence on the drug performances. In conclusion, golimumab appears as a very useful and well tolerated anti-TNF agent.